She had intended to find a place to rest. She sometimes finds herself contemplating lazing about a bit after her work for the day is done. However, everyone only sees her as a dabbler, and she has no intention of brazenly going to the river with her finning rod or shell-gathering basket while the others are busy with farmwork. She looks at the farmers sowing seeds in the fields, and is suddenly reminded of a conversation with the one who took her in and taught her—
'The crops might not want to be planted here. Well, they'll be eaten either way.' A passing joke after a lesson.
'But you are no bushel of wheat, so how can you say they wouldn't enjoy it?' A joke is, naturally, replied to with another.
That person was much younger than her, and those words seemed to be twisted logic.
But now, she watches the seeds being buried in the soil, entranced. Upon remembering those words, her curiosity is piqued. And so, she takes a tiny fragment of her consciousness, and sends it on a leisurely trip into a seed.
Thunder rolls, and the miniature 'her' opens her 'eyes'. The soil she is in is like the tomb in which she was born, damp and filled with the scent of earth, nary a hint of light. However, this 'her' is no longer a proxy, and this place is not her origin.
So who is she, right now?
She hears only fowlbeasts flying overhead, senses only droplets of water seeping towards her. As for what is in her heart, there is nothing more than a simple impulse: no matter how the soil stifles her, or how her coat refuses to crack, she will grow and grow, releasing the vitality within.
Roots burst through her coat, and the sprout shoots towards the surface. An unremarkable new sprout unfurls its leaves in the field, elatedly taking in the air after a spring shower.
Heaven and earth, sun and sky. The truest form of life is nothing complicated. The first explorers of this land sought only a place to take root and thrive. Draw in water, grow, and await the beginning of life's next cycle. She had not expected any other answer, but in this moment, she feels for herself... growth.
