On her way to Baizao, Ch'en runs into an unexpected guest.
A ruler in one hand, a potted plant in the other, and standing under a tree by the road as if waiting for a friend.
But Ch'en is certain the man before her is the mastermind behind the chaotic dreams she's had over the past few years. She thought he would have continued employing those shameless tricks, but here he is now, out in the open.
'Long time no see, Miss Ch'en.'
'No more games this time?'
'They're no longer necessary.' The young man taps the huge tree behind him with his ruler, and their surroundings instantly shift again and again: Day turns to night, drought follows deluge, summer converges with winter as water gels with fire. But no shadows or waves burst forth, and no matter how many times the scenery changes, it remains bright and clear around Ch'en herself. He finishes showcasing his latest trick, and her view gradually returns to normal.
'Chi Xiao is a special, special sword. Peerless compared to other works, even if we're only talking material. But what makes it so alluring is that it turns into a new sword every time it meets a new master, who is sure to possess peerless talent themselves. So you can imagine why I crave it for my collection.
'You've polished it well, Miss Ch'en. A treasure like that is honestly hard to come by. So would you be willing to part with it? You've seen how desperate I am. I will accept any offer. Ask for a garden of gold and I wouldn't even blink.'
Ch'en unsheathes Chi Xiao in reply.
'As expected.' The young man lowers his potted plant and stows his ruler away to pull a sword prototype from his sleeve. 'Alas, I suppose a duel is our only option. Do forgive me, Miss Ch'en!'
...
The young man is no stranger to Chi Xiao's swordplay, but Ch'en ultimately defeats him with a timely flash of ingenuity, and his attempt at pulling off the cloud-splitting sword technique is rent in vain. Caught off guard, his momentum drops to the floor along with his sword, signaling his defeat.
But Ch'en does not escort the man to the authorities—she can guess his identity, after all. Now that his sword is nearly complete, surely he won't bother her anymore. Baizao is still a ways away, and she has to hurry to catch up to Wei Yenwu.
And so the young man lays down under the tree as he watches Ch'en's figure vanish into the horizon. Only when she's gone does he get up, taking out the sword prototype he used earlier as well as two small bottles.
Inexperienced youth tempered to maturity, martial arts demonstrated with heart. Everything has fallen perfectly into place, and he obtains what he is after.
A new Chi Xiao—a light and thin blade bearing a blue tint within red, obviously carrying Ch'en's personal style. He admires it for a long time, then reluctantly wraps it up and turns around, returning to the garden.
The Placation is nearly complete, and so are his 2nd eldest brother's plans. The bestial Sui is about to rise from Its slumber, and anything could happen. He wonders if he will have the fortune to meet another valiant and collect another Chi Xiao.
Yi is asleep hugging three 'Chi Xiaos' when Liang enters the Treasure Room. An ordinary sight, and Liang is unfazed. He drapes a blanket over the sleeping man, and blows out the candles in the room. Darkness, true to form, enveloped the dream mutterings of Yi: 
'Four hundred years that is...
'A sword forged with mind and soul'... a true rarity...
'Hah...
'Heaven's Dare... Heaven's Eye... What will we have the next...
'Zzz...'
...
Perhaps in this Sui proxy's dreams, he too, like Chi Xiao's wielder, can lead by example and forge a blade with his heart.
