The young man follows the vanguard as it advances, scouting out the whereabouts of their enemy, who often raided Zhoujia Village. The Grandmaster had actually told him to stay in camp to train. After all, he had only just been dispatched to Yumen for 'experience' a few days ago. He did not know where he had plucked the courage from, but he had told the Grandmaster: 'Care to make a wager with me?' A stray boast, for Father is far away in Baizao, and was not there to lecture him... Little did he expect the Grandmaster to actually agree. Was he not as cold and distant as he thought? In the end, the Grandmaster had agreed, saying that if he managed to capture an enemy and bring them back alive, his 'experience' will be considered complete, and he could return to Baizao. He still has cases to complete and criminals to arrest, and did not wish to waste away his years out in this barren desert. Secretly, he hopes that this scouting trip would run into the enemy.
The scouting party quickly finds themselves in desperate combat with their black-hatted foes. By the time the young man snaps out of his reverie, the enemy's blade is just about to hack apart his face. He steps back over and over, doing his best to parry every blow. The vigorous slashing sends vibrations down his hands as their swords clash, and it takes all his strength to keep his weapon from flying out of his grasp. All he can hear is the din of his own battle. There is no time for him to care about friend or foe, or where arrows are being loosed from, or what orders his commander is barking out—He slips, and tumbles to the ground.
Being able to return to camp alive is fortuitous enough. The young man kneels to the ground and vomits, not caring that the Grandmaster is nearby and looking his way. From then on, the only place he can be found is the training grounds, pushing his martial arts training tenfold, no, a hundredfold harder than before—He wants to get rid of that shameful memory. The Grandmaster will occasionally stop by to watch him practice, but never gives him any direction or commentary. Perhaps he is already aware of his skill level, and is sure he'd stay for more 'experience'?
One day, the Grandmaster quietly approaches him as he trains, and asks: 'Our wager, is it still ongoing?' The young man is startled, and the Grandmaster points at his thigh. 'Your stance is off. Start over.' The young man takes a deep breath and swings his sword once more, but he dares not look in the eyes of his teacher. 'Grandmaster... You still believe I can do it?'
The Grandmaster simply says: 'Today, at the Hour of Ssu, we depart for Zhoujia Village.'
Upon hearing the name of the village, the young man's face goes pale. It was exactly on the road back from Zhoujia Village that he met with the enemy, and nearly died. Now, if he goes back there again...
'The enemy launched another attack to the village?'
'Are you scared?'
'I... I... I'm not scared at all!'
The Grandmaster personally leads the sortie this time. The young man follows the troops, on edge the entire time. The Grandmaster had seemed satisfied with his answer, but only he knows just how lacking in confidence he is: the enemy had captured the village, after all, and turned it into their stronghold. It will be much easier for them to fend off an attack this time... But the moment he sees one of them stomping on a trembling villager, his fury burns brighter than his fear. Though it is still the same chaotic battlefield and the same vicious enemy, his sword hand is steady.
After driving out their foes, the soldiers help the villagers clean up the mess under the guidance of the Grandmaster. The young man joins in, working deep into the night. He does not feel sleepy, so he sits atop a roof, looking out into the distance.
'So this is the sort of war Yan is fighting at the borders...' Sensing the Grandmaster sit down by him, he mumbles: 'You called me up today for a reason, didn't you, Grandmaster? Father must have told you about the mistakes I made back in Baizao.'
For accidentally injuring civilians while pursuing enemies, the youth had been sent to Yumen for both training and self-reflection.
'You and Father were both trying to get me to understand why I wield the sword. I think I... understand a little bit more now.'
'If that is the case, then you are the winner of our little wager.'
The young man's expression changes slightly, but he seems neither too surprised or happy. After some consideration, he says: 'If you are alright with it, Grandmaster, may I stay here to train longer? We had casualties today, and the situation at the border will surely become even more dire. I think there are still things I can do here.'
The Grandmaster is more surprised than the yound man. He falls silent for a moment, then pats the young man upon the shoulder with a smile before getting up to leave.
'Thank you, Grandmaster, for your generosity!' The youth clasps his fist in respect. 'I, Zuo Xuanliao, will not squander your trust in me.'
