An incident occurred at Mr. Gao's banquet. No doubt it was a grave matter, because after the guests dispersed, Mr. Gao flew into a rage, calling for the chef responsible for the banquet.
Not a moment later, the Young Chef, seeming thirteen or fourteen years of age, nervously steps into the hall. With a glance at the dining table, he immediately notices that the steamed shadfin he was specifically instructed to prepare carefully is not present.
Mr. Gao takes a deep breath, and asks through gritted teeth: 'What did I say before the banquet?'
The Young Chef replied: 'You said today's guest would be very important, so I was to make sure to serve him something that'd make him happy.'
Mr. Gao raises his voice. 'And what exactly do you think that means?'
The Young Chef gulps, not saying a word in return. He does not enjoy this sort of questioning.
'That was the Assistant Minister of Revenue! I spent years coaxing him into having a meal at my home, and this is what you do to me?! I had that fin specially brought in from outside the city, just for this moment! And I told you the side dishes had to live up to both it and today's guest!'
The Young Chef speaks quietly: 'I added some shredded bamboo shoots to the scallion and ginger... Did... they not go well together? That can't be—I tried the broth, and the shoots brought out the fin's flavor...'
'Bamboo shoots, you say? Oh yes, the Assistant Minister certainly noticed them.' Mr. Gao sneers at the chef. 'I suppose I was a fool for sending someone to Kou-wu to get smoked ham.'
'Smoked ham?' The Young Chef raises his lowered head slightly. 'That definitely wouldn't have worked. The smoky flavor would be too strong, it would have smothered the flavor of the fin—'
'I was using that fin to represent the True Lung, and you went and added common bamboo shoots to the side dish? What, were you trying to make me say our guest was some run-of-the-mill bamboo shoot under the True Lung's heel?! Pah, I never should've expected a common cook to understand my intent. You've gone and wasted my finest ingredients!'
'A common cook?! ...Wait, what happened to the shadfin?'
Mr. Gao stares at him contemptuously. 'Hmph. I had it taken away so the Assistant Minister wouldn't misunderstand me. As for you, reflect upon yourself, and do not disappoint me again!'
The Young Chef presses down on the veins bulging out on his forehead. He breathes in, then out, tamping down his anger. He takes off his chef's hat and uniform, placing them in a neat pile by Mr. Gao's hand.
'What are you doing?' Mr. Gao's anger is palpable. 'You asked me for fame and fortune, and I agreed. But you want to quit after only a few words?! You think your fortune, or mine, comes without ever bowing your head to anyone—that you can just earn it easily? Who under heaven can do that? Not even that one at the very top!'
'Which means... there's nothing especially great about this flavor.'
The Young Chef pays no heed to Mr. Gao's attempt to make him stay. He apologizes for the mismatched dishes, then leaves. Mr. Gao continues raging at his back as he leaves, and in his anger, he passes by the side hall, where he spots the steamed shadfin that had been set aside. At first, he considers smashing the dish to pieces, but it looks and smells far too appetizing. He cannot stop himself from having a bite...
The meat melts in his mouth, and his eyebrows float up as the tide of savor rises up his head. His anger is soothed not by fawning or flattery, but only by pure deliciousness. He is unsure when his face became so relaxed.
'Serving him something that would make him happy...'
Mr. Gao suddenly remembers what sort of dish can truly make a man happy. He calls for someone to go retrieve the Young Chef, but halfway through his order, he stops himself.
'...Never mind.'
