Ch'en is trapped within Dossoles's 'sea'.
It began with a heavy downpour, followed by strong winds, sending people indoors for cover. Ch'en was just about to return to her temporary lodging, but in that very moment, a towering wave crashed into the city, flooding the streets with seawater and turning everything in its path into debris. She deftly dodged the waves, leaping onto a rooftop. Be it a natural or man-made disaster, her instinct is to immediately survey the area for anyone in danger of drowning.
But she seems to hear nothing but the wind and water. With another careful look around, she notices no one else is in the city.
Memories of what she has gone through come flooding back, and Ch'en knows that the thief has found her again.
'What do you even want?!' Ch'en unsheathes the blade in anger, but the pilferer does not reveal himself, instead indicating what he wants with a single clap of thunder.
Chi Xiao.
Just after the thunder rumbles, the wind and rain suddenly die down just as Ch'en hears a young man's voice.
'You drew it from its scabbard so easily? How did you do that?'
So it was indeed him, the tourist she first met at the noodle cart. Now it is clear that he's been after Chi Xiao the whole time.
'If you want it, then enough with these games. Show yourself.'
Water condenses into a cell-like entity, but for some reason, atop it sits a vivarium. A laughable sight.
'This has never been a game to me, Madam Ch'en.
'The sea, the city. The shadows and rooms. Are all of these not what you've been through in real life?
'I only hoped to confuse you long enough to give me an opportunity to seize Chi Xiao.
'Trust me, ma'am. Hand over the blade now, and I'll leave at once. I guarantee you'll never see me again.'
The giant lifeform sways to a rhythm, becoming even more comical than before.
So you mean you're trying to steal my sword, again?'
'I don't steal, ma'am. You can trust me on this. I'm just testing to see if I can pull Chi Xiao from its scabbard myself. Look, I'm a collector, and Chi Xiao is a well-known blade, but wouldn't it be such a pity to obtain it only to find I couldn't even draw and wield it myself?'
'What does that have to do with your underhanded tricks?'
The lifeform spreads out a palm, and begins to hash it out with Ch'en—
'Chi Xiao is a blade that knows its own master, correct? So naturally, I would just have to rattle you a bit, and have you unconditionally surrender it to me. And naturally, I know that would've been impossible, so I had to resort to more underhanded means. I do hope you'll forgive me.'
'Fine, come over here, then.'
'Huh? You're just going to give it up that easily?'
'Sure, I'll give it to you in this dream, but the sword's still with me in reality. How are you going to take it?'
'That's the easy part.' The lifeform excitedly approaches the rooftop and extends a single tentacle, 'As long as we come to an agreement, I'll figure out a way to fulfill it.'
Watching the claws on the tentacle continuously extend and retract, Ch'en sighs, and sheathes Chi Xiao in resignation: 'So can I take it you're a man of your word, and won't bother me anymore?'
The lifeform nods eagerly, excitement soaked into its words. Perhaps because it hadn't expected this to go so well, it innocently watches as Ch'en loosens her sword belts, takes Chi Xiao out of its scabbard, and—
A flash of red, and the scabbard breaks apart. Before it can comprehend what is happening, a jet of water bursts from Ch'en's water gun, whizzing past sword and scabbard, piercing through the lifeform's defenses, and striking it right in its core.
...
'AAAGHHH MY EYES!'
Somewhere on a beach, a young man seemingly preoccupied with sunbathing suddenly covers his eyes and falls off his beach chair, scaring off a pickpocket who had been fiddling with the man's luggage.
After rubbing his eyes for a while, he finally lies back down again.
'Ch'en Hui-chieh! I look away for hardly a moment, and you've already learned to tell lies?!'
'Huff, huff... Well, this is fine. Good, even. A sharp mind will sharpen the blade in turn.
'Once she's polished Chi Xiao into its ideal form, I'll be sure to find her once more.'
