Descending from Jianzi Shrine at the summit, handing over Yi's jade rule at the Garden's gate, returning to Baizao with a crowd of Candleholders and Tianshi, reporting in at the Sui Regulator, undergoing an inspection at the Tianshi Bureaus, recounting what happened, collating reports, accepting inquiries, resolving disputes... By the time Lin Qingyan, Yun Qingping, and Zuo Le finished dealing with all these things in the wake of the ceremony, the better part of a month had passed. As for the one who suddenly dumped these responsibilities on them, the mysterious Old Tianshi had most likely already left Baizao for elsewhere, happy as can be. After being yanked around by her so much, the trio momentarily forgot their original itinerary. Several days of wandering later, they finally and unexpectedly return to Mangshan Town.
Despite the heaven-turning chaos of man and geist instigated by Mo Yi, the town was once again the picture of peace. For some reason, it is especially busy today, and the trio only finds an empty table in front of a restaurant after much searching. They order a few dishes, asking for congee, noodles, and grains according to their preferences, all while helping give cover to a shoulder pole waregeist waiter who nearly exposed himself. Upon seeing that he had guests who knew the town's secret, the shopkeep greets the trio and gives them some appetizers. While waiting for their food to be delivered, they chat about where to go next.
Lin Qingyan is preparing to return to the Tianshi Bureaus for a spell, to listen to the masters' instructions and the advice of her seniors. When the time is right, she will traverse Yan from east to west. 'How should we serve the law, and how should the law serve us?' She must observe everything from the top of the clouds in heaven to the bowels of the earth below, and learn all she can.
Yun Qingping is always prepared to wander wherever his heart takes him. Despite unexpectedly joining the Candleholders, his new identity would not hinder him on his journey south, where he will see Yanese sights quite unlike Yumen. If he is lucky, he may even make it in time for the annual grand celebration of martial artistry held in the south.
Unlike the other two who are free to roam, Zuo Le must continue to keep an eye on the motley family known as the Sui proxies. But before that, he has to return the <i>Book of Kung Fu</i> Yun Qingping wrote to Yumen, and presumably also explain to his father why the original edition is now in the care of the Sui Regulator's Chamber of Geists and could not be returned immediately.
......
Just after noontime, the three have eaten their fill and slaked their thirst. After some discussion, they prepare to stay in town overnight. After tonight, the trio will go their separate ways, but before that...
Zuo Le glances at the pink and teal mascot plushies of the Garden of Grotesqueries in the hands of tourists crossing the road.
Perhaps they should swing by the Garden this afternoon as tourists, to amuse themselves. Listen to the tour guide explain its history, and see its historic sites up close, all without having to chase down and slay geists in the name of the Candleholders and Tianshis.
After paying for their meal, they ask the shopkeep where they could buy tickets to the Garden. He happily points them towards an advertisement in front of the restaurant, adorned with a lotus flower. From behind the counter, he pulls out three 'tickets'. As an establishment near a tourist spot, how could he <i>not</i> get into the ticket business?
Tickets in hand, the trio wade through the bustling crowd, waiting for the tour guide at the station with a gaggle of tourists who seemed like students. According to them, other scenic parks asked for an additional fee for a guide, but the Garden's was included with the ticket. Considering the unclear variance in price between various parks across Yan, a free guide service was no doubt very attractive to perennially-penniless students. After much chattering, a minivan finally stops at the station. Its doors open, and the tour guide alights, wearing a Garden uniform, ancient yet elegant in design, clashing with the modern sun hat atop his head. On his back, he has a plush bag in the shape of the Garden's mascot, Little Ba'jie, whose hand is holding a Garden banner the guide just pulled open. On that banner, embroidered in red and green thread, are a row of big, eye-catching words:
'The Garden of Grotesqueries welcomes guests from afar.'
This 'distinct' attire immediately gets the students talking again. The guide ignores their ridicule. He adjusts his headset, clears his throat, and begins to speak.
'Good afternoon, my friends. I'm Yi, and I'll be serving as your guide for your trip through the Garden of Grotesqueries. I hope you'll end today both happier and more knowledgeable.
'I'd like to ask you all to come aboard. It'll take us roughly twenty minutes to get there, so we'll be at the main entrance in the blink of an eye. On the way, I'll be giving everyone a basic overview of the Garden and going over some key information.'
The guide skillfully double-checks the headcount, passes out brochures and gets the tourists seated in the van. The students rush aboard, leaving only the three 'Placation VIPs' rooted in place, stunned into silence.
Zuo Le's mouth opens then closes then opens again, as if he wished to say something, but even after several minutes, nothing comes out.
Yun Qingping is still trying to process the bizarre sight before him. He reflexively tries to pull out his notebook, but in his confusion, his hands rummage through empty pockets.
Lin Qingyan has weathered great storms and raging tempests, but now, it is as if she were nailed to the ground, looking the guide up and down with a face full of some emotion between amusement, amazement, and disbelief.
'Is this your first time visiting the Garden?'
The guide gives the trio a wink.
'The Garden has only just been restored, and a new area has been opened up for sightseeing. We've also taken the opportunity to display some artifacts that had been in storage for a while now. Seeing old things in a new light is a rather special feeling.
'You can't miss out.'
......
Five minutes later, a minivan drives down the highway, heading towards the nearby Garden of Grotesqueries.
