Two weiqi players are having a game in a pavilion. The black-clad player as Black, the player in the white robe as White. The game has reached its midpoint, and the black-clad man calculates his next move. If he were his former self, he would have made his move long ago, but now—
'What say you, Mr. Wang?'
Wang continues to ponder the changes atop the board.
Ever since the bestial Sui matter had been settled, he and his siblings have lost their powers. His 'cunning plans' are scattered, and he is no longer able to calculate past, present, and future like he used to. The exhaustion and pain after overthinking oft remind him that he is now a mere mortal.
Wang places his stone.
It is now the white-robed youth's turn to ponder, giving Wang the chance to relax. He is surprised by this unfamiliar feeling. Was it a fluke, or has he become complacent? He cannot say for sure. Soon, doubt winds its way around his heart once more. His opponent places his stone, in a place he did not consider.
And so begins another round of endless deliberation by him.
Things have changed. He can no longer reckon the millions and billions of variations of the board with a single glance. But this game is one he must win...
He must obtain that scroll, one devoid of ink and paint.
Two hours ago, Wang saw the scroll in a gallery. It boasted no calligraphy or painting, but everyone who saw it said they could see an indistinct likeness of somebody on its blank face. The moment Wang stepped forward to buy it, another did as well to inquire the price. The two had come forward at the same time, and neither was willing to acquiesce, so they moved to a pavilion in the gallery's rear court to wager it all on a game of weiqi.
......
By the time they enter the endgame, the sun is about to set. The proprietor of the gallery gives them lamps, stepping forward to peer at what are to be the deciding moves of the game, but the one who is about to place his stone does not move, confusing even the proprietor. Just as he is about to head off, Wang stretches a hand out to his opponent.
'I thank you for your grace.' The white-robed youth wipes the sweat off his brow, placing his stone down on the board before grasping Wang's hand with both of his.
'You're both evenly matched. Not going to keep the game going?'
'No need. I'm sure Mr. Wang here is like me. After running all the calculations, we both know how it will end, right?'
Wang nods.
'Then my scroll—'
The white-robed youth takes the scroll from the proprietor, then solemnly presents it to Wang.
Wang frowns, unsure of what plans are brewing in his opponent's mind.
'Our battle over the scroll earlier was simply because I saw you were a man who knew weiqi, sir, so I came up with this pretense to have a chance to play. If I have offended you, then I beg your forgiveness.'
'I don't know weiqi at all.' Wang stands to receive the scroll, taking out his wallet at the same time to pay the proprietor for the scroll. 'I've simply placed a lot of stones over a long time. You get a knack for it. Besides, this game was my—'
'Just some mutual education, sir. No need to worry about wins or losses.' The white-robed youth interrupts Wang. 'I've loved weiqi ever since I was a child, and while I have some talent, winning more than I lose, lately I find myself more interested in calculating the variables on the board rather than worrying about victory. From our game, I can see that although you're a little rusty, sir, you come up with strategies deep and tactics wide, and a great many of them as well. I've very much enjoyed myself.'
'If we ever meet again, I hope to have another head-to-head match with you. I must be off to Baizao to take an examination. Farewell.'
Wang looks at the board in front of him and continues to think, placing black and white stones according to his calculations.
It is just as both he and the youth surmised: it was clearly to be his loss, yet—
If he had taken the point where the youth had placed his final stone, where Wang was about to place his stone before he passed his turn, then there had been the possibility of turning things in his favor.
Wang bids farewell to the gallery's proprietor before finding an inn to stay at.
Many years ago, Wang had an opponent he played for a long stretch of time, but he did not know their identity. They played white as well, and were locked in combat with Wang over that game of heaven and earth, equally matched. Being able to meet someone similar was a miracle, but Wang had no mind to pry. He had more important matters at hand.
Wang unfurls the scroll, its surface completely blank.
He takes off the amber pendant he wears, and places it atop the scroll.
Within the amber is a tattered scrap of paper. Before the portrait at Jianzi Shrine fell apart completely, Yi enclosed its final scrap within the petrified sap, before leaving it to Wang.
Now, it has become the only clue he has to search for his kin.
The amber glides across the scroll, revealing the silhouette of a woman.
Things he had forgotten for years upon years upon years now wind their way through his mind once more.
The bestial Sui has faded away, but his siblings have become ordinary folk. Is there not the possibility that, somewhere out there in Great Yan, his younger sister who had been forgotten by all is now like them, lingering upon this land in the form of a mortal?
