What are you thinking about now, sitting out here on your lonesome?
No need to explain it to me. Getting humans to understand one's thoughts is one of the most difficult things under heaven. You speak, but words fail you. They listen, but they do not comprehend. I've seen it many times before.
So leave it to me. I am rather skilled at understanding them and making them feel understood.
Aiya, I don't know when it started, but we've been using the word 'human' when we talk now. It's rather strange.
Yet, without these humans, where would we twelve have come from? The more you think about it, the more it makes sense.
In truth, I've been thinking of something lately, brother, and I may have to trouble you to come up with a strategy.
We twelve have interlinked hearts. If one of our siblings were near, we would know who it is.
But humans are not the same. Even blood relatives may fail to recognize one another, given enough time.
And so, they devised something they call a 'name'.
Special syllables, coupled with characters. The two form a union, one that becomes a unique symbol.
Like intertwined points, but rather more complex.
They're easy to remember, for yourself and for others too. What do you think?
I'd rather not be called 'the Fifth Sui' by humanity my entire life. As if Its mark were still on me.
The ones who create characters helped me think of one to use as a name. Could you read this for me, brother?
I shall write it and recite it for you.
The characters 'Ji' and 'Ye', 'luck' and 'page', come together to form 'Jie'.
Yes, that's right~
It's short and sweet.
Also... It feels somewhat different from communicating by thought alone.
When sounds reach the ear, it is a touch more sincere.
Are there any characters you fancy, brother?
It's rare to see you without words or thoughts. I suppose I'll have to do it for you. Reluctantly, I might add.
Since you love looking out into the distance, how about 'Wang', 'to gaze'?
No laughing; I put a lot of thought into it. When plans do not falter, it's called 'full,' and a full moon is a beauty to gaze at. To observe the future from the present is to look into the distance, and to look into the distance is to gaze. How about it, does it not suit you?
Let me try it out first—
Wang.
It sounds good when read aloud, right?
Now that we're set on this character, anyone on this land will see your jet-and-chalk hair and your yin-and-yang eyes and know what to call you.
Hmm...
Wait, let me see if I can think up anything even more fitting.
Choosing a name is not something to take lightly. Just as how your strategies cannot succeed with only a single move on the board, right?
You say my words have a hidden meaning? I don't know what you mean~
As it so happens, I brought along a human game today.
A board of nineteen lines against nineteen, with myriad variations.
It's a good opportunity to see how your plans play out on a concrete object, brother.
Choose, black or white.
Black... A move for every occasion, letting you win even when behind. Very much your style.
I'll start then~
